Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and how it has now fallen below its
200-week moving average. If you guys
like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on Into the Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
As a reminder, we are going to do the
first ITC conference in Miami in
November. So, check that out if you
would like to attend. Link will be in
the description below or the pinned
comment. We're going to continue to add
speakers as time goes on.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, Bitcoin,
unfortunately, just had its first weekly
close below the 200-week moving average
for the first time this cycle.
It's not like we haven't seen this
before. In fact, the last time we saw it
was where it first closed below it was
actually in June of 2022. So,
while there's a lot of, you know, uproar
about how this time is different and how
the 4-year cycle is invalid, you can see
that a lot of these things actually play
out in similar ways that they've played
out in the past.
And I think a lot of people just want to
overcomplicate it when we don't really
need to overcomplicate it.
Often times, Bitcoin drops into June,
right? You can see it dropped into June
of 2022.
And it also dropped into June of 2018 as
well.
Now,
I can't say for sure like when Bitcoin
is going to form a low, but what I will
say is this. Often times, the way this
works out
is Bitcoin forms a low early in the
summer,
and then there's some type of
countertrend rally that happens like a
little bit in mid to late summer,
and then that sets up the final drop
into the market cycle bottom. Now, if
something were to happen that caused
Bitcoin to unravel quicker, like maybe a
financial product uh within the
cryptoverse
struggling and not doing what it should
be doing. If something like that were to
happen, if you think back to the last
cycle we had, you know, FTX blowing up,
we had Luna, we had Voyager, we had a
lot of things blowing up, and even then
we still had the four-year cycle went
out. So,
think about the type of event you would
have to have that would cause the bear
market to end early. It would have to be
a pretty big event, right? And we've
made the comparison before, obviously,
to 2019. You know, the comparison
between this bear market and the one in
2019. And you know what caused that bear
market to end a little prematurely was
arguably the pandemic, the blue line,
right? That was the pandemic. You had
price-based capitulation, where there
was a massive spike in volume, and it
caused all the bulls to get essentially
wiped out. And then it fully reset all
the on-chain metrics. It just reset
everything, and it allowed for the bull
market to begin.
If you don't get something like that,
then you're still just simply looking at
a fairly normal mid-term year bear
market in 2026, comparable to the
average of prior mid-term years, where
you often will find lows early in the
summer, and then rally into the
mid-to-late summer before then dropping
into that final market cycle bottom. So,
I would say it makes the most amount of
sense to defer to time-based
capitulation, but to be open-minded to
price-based capitulation forming a low
sooner
if that's how it plays out, right? So,
like, if we get price-based
capitulation, then instead of calling
for a low later in the year, it would
then make more sense to pivot and say,
"All right, we can actually have a low
sooner." But as long as we don't have
that,
then I would say, "All right, you know,
these rallies will likely fade back to
the downside." In fact, one of the
things you can note in 2026 is that we
had a low in February, a higher low in
late March, early April, and then a
lower low in June. Look at 2018. A low
in February, a higher low in late March,
early April, and then a lower low in
June. Now, it's hard to know exactly
like when you might get countertrend
rallies and that's why I'm not electing
to trade them. I actually think the best
strategy for Bitcoin generally is just
DCA'ing Bitcoin in the second half of
midterm years. That's worked out pretty
well in prior midterm years. Sure, if
you did it in 2018, you did end up, you
know, getting a larger drop later on and
if you did it in 2022, it obviously went
a little bit lower later on. But, if you
had a longer time horizon, it didn't
really matter. Right? Like it didn't
really matter. Now, if you want to get
into the nitty-gritty in 2018, what
happened is Bitcoin fell in the late
June, got a little bit of a push into
early July and then still sold off again
in in mid-July where it came back down
to 6,000.
And again, I've made the comparison
previously about what if, you know, this
this six $6,000 in both 2018 and 2019,
what if that's kind of comparable to the
$60,000
to the $60,000 our level in uh 2026,
right? Where if you were to get a big
drop below
that that level, that would sort of lead
into that market cycle bottom.
So, the lower you go below that, the
more likely that market cycle bottom
will will in fact be in. But again,
unless there's the catalyst to cause
price-based capitulation and to cause a
massive surge in volume, then I I think
time-based capitulation is what wins out
and what you can look at when you look
at volume is you'll see how there was a
massive a massive spike at the end of
2014 bear market, a massive spike at the
end of the 2018 bear market, and also a
big spike at the end of the 2022 bear
market. And we just simply haven't had
anything like that this bear market yet,
but it could in fact be something that
occurs a little bit later in in the
year. So, I just wanted to put out this
video and say, "Look, I know Bitcoin
dropping below the 200-week moving
average is a little scary, but it it has
happened before.
All right, it's happened multiple times.
It happened last bear market. It also
happened during the pandemic.
And and we eventually came back.
So, you know, in in the midterm your
bear market, we fell below it. We
rallied back a little bit above the
200-week moving average, and then we
fell back down into the market cycle
bottom.
So, I I think in unless you get that
price-based capitulation where Bitcoin
fully resets the on-chain indicators, if
that happens soon, then I would pivot
and say, "All right, you don't need a
lower low." But, for now, I think the
most likely outcome
would be Bitcoin forms a low early in
the summer, countertrend rally mid to
late summer, with a final drop like late
Q3, early Q4. Something like that would
make the most amount of sense to me.
But, if we get that price-based
capitulation, like any good investor, it
would make sense to pivot and not marry
any any any prediction. Okay? Because no
one actually knows what's going to
happen.
That'll wrap it up for this video.
Again, if you guys like the content,
make sure you subscribe, give the video
a thumbs up. And again, if you're
interested, check out the ITC conference
coming to Miami uh the weekend of
November 20th to the 22nd. Thank you
guys for tuning in, and I'll see you
next time. Bye.